The sometimes-complex relationship women have with body image has been well documented, but a recent campaign from UK men’s health platform, Manual, revealed a disturbing development: body-shame has spread to men.

I imagine I speak for most women who have been writing about, and fighting for, gender equality when I say that this is not the change we had in mind.

As part of Mental Health Awareness week, eight men, including transgender activist Kenny Ethan-Jones, vitiligo spokesman Bashir Aziz and plus-size male model Ben Whittaker, stripped down to their underwear to encourage men to stop hating their bodies.
“I would think about how much I hated my body about 80 per cent of the time, if not 100 per cent of the time,” says campaign spokesperson and charity worker James Makings.

Makings says he suffered from depression due to having a body that was bigger than what is deemed acceptable. “The imagery that we see in the media of what men should look like is massively damaging,” he says.
Psychologist and director of spcialist eating disorders clinic BodyMatters Australasia, Sarah McMahon, says that body shame among men is a growing problem in Australia, with an increasing number of men suffering from disorders including binge eating as a result.

“Binge eating is associated with body shame and is often triggered or exacerbated by the engagement of unhealthy weight loss practices,” says McMahon.

For years, binge eating has been misunderstood as a perverse behaviour of women who lack willpower and self-respect. Rather than binge eaters being given understanding and support, they are often judged for their "gluttony".

Warriors in 5
Golden State has proved since its championship run started in 2015 that winning on the road and dealing with adversity is part of its DNA. That mental makeup is why the Warriors will steal a game in Toronto, take care of business at Oracle and finish off this series north of the border. -- Bobby Marks

Warriors in 6
A six-game series is the most likely for the lower seed to win. I think statistical models that either consider this matchup a toss-up or give the Raptors the edge are underrating how well the Warriors have played without Kevin Durant. And if this series is close and goes long, well, that increases the chances of Durant returning to help push Golden State over the top. -- Kevin Pelton

Warriors in 7
This is an extremely tough call, especially with Durant's status up in the air. Kawhi Leonard, Kyle Lowry and the Raptors are a real threat, but the Warriors are still outstanding without Durant, have much more Finals experience and are very well rested for the first time in a while. The return of Durant could put a challenging defensive wrinkle in the middle of the series for Toronto. Stephen Curry has always played great against his dad's old team, too. Leonard's and Durant's health will factor in the outcome. -- Marc Spears

Raptors in 7
The Warriors have obvious championship pedigree, and they easily could win this series and get their three-peat. But the uncertainty about Kevin Durant's return -- coupled with the Raptors having home-court advantage, arguably the best player in the series in Kawhi Leonard and the best defensive unit that Golden State has seen during its dynastic run -- is enough to tip the scales in Toronto's direction to say the Raptors will win their first championship. -- Tim Bontemps

The Raptors are built to give the Warriors difficulties. They have an outstanding defensive front line that features three Defensive Player of the Year award winners plus a second-place finish spread among three players, none of whom were the best defender on the team this season -- that honor went to Pascal Siakam. The Raptors are top-10 in the NBA in 3-pointers made and 3-point percentage, and are also top 10 in fewest 3-pointers and lowest 3-point percentage allowed. They have the positional diversity to play every style from traditional big to small ball, with plus players at every position. -- Andre Snellings