IN THE WEEKS after the Los Angeles Lakers' 2016-17 season ended in mid-April, with the franchise failing to reach the postseason for the fourth consecutive year, more than 30 Lakers staffers -- largely from basketball operations -- gathered at the team's practice facility in El Segundo, California.

Before them were Rob Pelinka and Earvin "Magic" Johnson, who had been formally introduced in March 2017 as the Lakers' new front-office leaders -- with Johnson, an iconic player from the team's 1980s "Showtime" era, serving as its president of basketball operations, and Pelinka, who had famously served as Kobe Bryant's agent, as the general manager.

Neither possessed front-office experience but were chosen by Lakers president and governor Jeanie Buss, who had fired the organization's longtime general manager Mitch Kupchak and, separately, her brother Jim in February 2017.

This gathering would serve as one of Pelinka and Johnson's initial attempts to address the basketball operations staff in a more formal setting -- and to make an impression regarding their managerial style.

EDITOR'S PICKS

The Lakers' public drama is a crisis of ownership

Who's running the show? Inside the Lakers' hierarchy

Next moves for the Lakers: AD trade priorities and star free agents
In his remarks, Johnson expressed excitement about the task ahead, but he also made clear he didn't accept excuses or mistakes, and that those who weren't on board with the new management and their mission should leave, according to six staffers who were present.

Pointing upstairs, toward his office, Johnson drove home his point. He had a large stack of resumes sitting on his desk -- "a thousand" of them, multiple staffers recall him saying -- and he could replace any of them at any time.

"It was shocking," said one Lakers coaching staff member who was present. "If you're going to be in this business, you bring enough pressure on yourself. You don't need more pressure, especially from someone who's supposed to be an ally."

The message would set the tone for what many staffers describe as Johnson's confrontational demeanor over the next two years. "If you questioned him on anything, his response was always a threatening tone," said a Lakers front office staffer who interacted with Johnson directly. "He used intimidation and bullying as a way of showing authority."

When Pelinka and Johnson ascended to their posts, there was talk of a new beginning, the start of returning the Lakers to greatness. The era was even given a sleek brand: Lakers 2.0.

But the era was short-lived, culminating in Johnson's sudden resignation during an impromptu news conference on April 9. He cited "backstabbing and "whispering" as reasons for his abrupt departure. In just over two years, what was deemed a bold front-office experiment had failed.

During the nearly hour-long session with reporters in the halls of Staples Center mere minutes before the Lakers played their final game of the season -- a loss -- Johnson made tepid remarks about his working relationship with Pelinka, who would now be alone in attempting to chart a new path forward for the team.

Forty-one days later, Johnson's remarks about Pelinka would sharpen. In an appearance on ESPN's First Take, Johnson admitted that the duplicity and deceit were coming from none other than Pelinka, his general manager.

"I start hearing, 'Magic, you are not working hard enough. Magic's not in the office,'" Johnson told First Take. "People around the Laker office were telling me Rob was saying things. ... So I started getting calls from my friends outside of basketball saying those things now were said to them outside of basketball, now just not in the Lakers' office anymore."

The conversation continued, but ESPN's Stephen A. Smith wanted to circle back to comments about backstabbing.